# Named propositions for Iris

[![CI](https://github.com/tchajed/iris-named-props/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tchajed/iris-named-props/actions/workflows/build.yml)

Named propositions are an extension to the Iris Proof Mode (IPM) that allow you
to embed names for conjuncts within a definition and then use those names to
introduce or destruct the definition. See the header comment in
[named_props.v](src/named_props.v) for a detailed explanation with the entire
API.

This library is compatible with the development version of Iris and Coq 8.20+.

```coq
From iris.proofmode Require Import tactics.
From iris_named_props Require Import named_props.

Definition foo_rep :=
 ("HP" ∷ P ∗
  "HR" ∷ R)%I.

Theorem foo_rep_read_P :
  foo_rep -∗ P.
Proof.
 iIntros "H".
 iNamed "H".
 (* at this point we have a context of

 "HP" : P
 "HR" : R
 --------------------------------------∗
 P

 *)
 iExact "HP".
Qed.
```

If you add `From iris_named_props Require Import custom_syntax`, you can use a
new `@` intro pattern:

```coq
Theorem foo_rep_read_P_custom :
  foo_rep -∗ P.
Proof.
 iIntros "@". iExact "HP".
Qed.
```

Putting the names in the definition avoids repeating the same intro patterns
over and over in a proof. Not repeating yourself makes things easier to change
when the definition changes - for example, reordering and adding new conjuncts
will have minimal impact on proof scripts.

The "names" in named propositions are not actually just names, but Iris intro
patterns; for example `"#H"`, `"%H"` (using Iris's recent support for Coq names
in intro patterns), and `"?"` are all potentially useful.

One application of this feature implemented in the library is a tactic
`iNamedAccu` which is like `iAccu` but remembers the names used. If you haven't
used `iAccu`, it solves a goal which is an evar with the conjunction of the
entire context (this kind of situation arises when you have a proof rule that
allows saving the entire context and then restoring it elsewhere). `iNamedAccu`
is just like `iAccu`, but it adds names to the conjuncts so that the result can
easily be restored with the same names later.

For an example of using `iNamedAccu`, see
[tests/split_delay.v](tests/split_delay.v). We implemented a simple tactic
`iSplitDelay` that puts all hypotheses on the left side but changes the goal
from `Q1 ∗ Q2` to `(Q1 ∗ ?rest) ∗ (?rest -∗ ?Q2)`. The result is that you can
prove `Q1` on the left, use `iNamedAccu` to fill `?rest` with the remaining
hypotheses, and then use `iNamed 1` in the second goal to get back all the
remaining hypotheses. The upshot is that you don't need to decide upfront how to
split the context.

If you don't want to use the unicode symbol `∷`, you can import
`named_props_ascii_notation` to get `::` in `bi_scope`. However, note that this
conflicts with `::` as a notation for `cons`, which will now require `%list` if
you want to use it.
